The goal of this project was to create a chatbot using Natural Language Processing (NLP) and the main focus of the research was to explore various approaches in order to create the chatbot while also figuring out the limitations of those approaches. This project is focused only on making a chatbot that would interact with the user via text and not incorporate any forms of sound effects. It is created using various python modules like Torch, Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK), and Tkinter.  

To make the program more interactive, Tkinter, another python library was used to create a graphical interface for the program. The GUI of this chatbot is not too advanced. It is simply a box that contains a conversation window where the chat between the user and the bot is displayed and a texting window where the user can input their texts. To send the text to the bot, the user needs to press the enter (or return) button on their keyboard. A designated send button has not been created for this chatbot.

This chatbot is targeted to people in the College of Wooster. This includes students, faculty and staff. It also includes people visiting the campus and not knowing anything about the campus. The chatbot is trained to answer basic questions about the campus like where the post office is located or where can students eat at the college. This chatbot is made as an additional resource when people are lost about where the academic buildings are. The chatbot is called ’Sunflower’ and the name is inspired by the cat that roams around the campus and brings happiness to anyone who sees her. Even though the chatbot cannot bring happiness, it can provide some sense of comfort to the users by being a school resource. The chatbot is very easy to use, the users just need to open it and start chatting with Sunflower.

The only drawback of the chatbot is it does not have all the information regarding the college so when it comes across some questions that it does not know, it just sends ’I do not understand’ to the user. The interface is very simple and the user does not need to enter any of their information to the chatbot.
